bees construct their defenses with a
substance that no other animal produces
wax the workers secreted from glands on
their abdomen and derive it from honey
combined with fat tropical stingless
bees mix it with resin and build
entrance tubes to their nest within the
trunk of the tree
these tubes often take bizarre shapes
but they all have a nano entrance often
flared into a landing platform which is
heavily guarded by platoons of sentries
who vet every arrival
inside the workers labor building a maze
of interconnecting struts and plates to
support the brood combs
the resin stiffens the waxy structures
and antibiotic chemicals within it
reduce the risks of infection
those cells that will contain young our
first three quarters filled with pollen
then the huge Queen comes over to
inspect them
as soon as the cells provisioning is
complete the Queen drops an egg into it
and immediately one of the workers seals
off the top with wax
in a separate part of the nest there are
special pots for storing honey this is
why they must use wax paper cells
couldn't hold liquid they will be filled
to the brim for their contents are the
reserves for times when there's little
or no food to be found outside wax is
certainly a superb building material
malleable strong and capable of holding
liquids but it's very expensive to
produce